All that knowledge about hashing,
how it's used every single day and
everything around us,
why it's important, we now get to SSH.
SSH uses something called
a public key encryption,
or you can think public key cryptography,
something like that.
So the concept is, there's two parts
to an SSH key called a SSH key pair.
There's the public part, which is
something I can share out to anybody.
I can share, give you my public key,
post it on the Internet,
post it on Twitter, it doesn't
really matter, it's a public key.
Then you have your private key,
the private key is known only to me.
The public key is used to encrypt any sort
of data, any sort of message you want.
And I think of it as a hashing function,
or as the Psalter hashing function.
But the great thing is, anybody can
encrypt this message and send it to me,
but I'm the only one that can decrypt it.
Now, think how powerful that is.
I can send a message in broad open,
I can shout it from the streets, and
no one will know what I'm
saying other than me,
because I'm the only one
who can decrypt that.
You can consider it one way, encryption,
different ways of thinking about it, but
that's a really powerful concept.
So, what if we took our passwords and
we were able to hash them in such a way
that only I have the password, but you
can't read it because I have the private
key that's the password is based off of.
And that's where we get what SSH is, and
that's why it's such a powerful concept,
much stronger than user password,
much stronger than any other
form of authentication.
Biometric is completely different,
we will talk about that.
All right, SSH stands for
secure socket shell.
It just means that's how we connect
to a server in a secure way.
So when we connect to our server,
and we will here in a minute,
we're going to create a SSH key.
We're gonna keep the private key
on our end, it will never leave,
you don't pass it around.
You can put on a secure USB, but
it's generally frowned upon.
It's usually much better to create
a new SSH key and add that,
versus taking a private key and
logging around, you don't wanna do that.
Then every message we send to the server
is encrypted with a public key, and
the server itself has a public key and
a private key.
In that way, the server can send back
messages encrypted, or I can send
the server messages encrypted with this
public key, and only it can decrypt it.
And thus we have this completely
transparent funnel of information flowing
back and forth, but no one can read it
other than the two parties at the end.
That's such a powerful concept
versus username and password which,
if I wanna shout, hey,
my password is password.
Anybody standing in
the middle between me and
where I'm trying to
communicate can learn that.
But you can stand in the middle of an SSH
tunnel and it'll just be gibberish to you,
cuz you don't have the private
key on either end.
It's a really simple concept
like this public key pair,
but it's such a powerful way of
securing our clients and our servers.
So we've learned about hashing,
we learned about hashing functions,
we learned about SSH, let's go and
create an SSH key then.
Don't just take my word for it,
you will see it, what it looks like.
So SSH keys, they can live whatever, but
by convention you want them
in the .ssh directory.
So that's in your home directory.
The dot is important, and
how do we see hidden files dot files?
Yes with the a flag, ls -la,
you'll see your SSH directory.
You may have a key in there already,
the default is called id_rsa,
that'll be your private key,
the public key always ends at a .pub.
This is really important.
If it doesn't say .pub,
do not share it out.
There's a big difference between
your private key and public key,
as we just talked about.
So use the tool called ssh-keygen.
And if you don't believe me,
you can man ssh-keygen again,
don't take my word for anything.
I could be tricking you,
I'm not, you never know.
And then create a key and
call it fsfe, full stack front end,
just for simplicity sake.
You can really name it whatever you want,
but
it's better if we all use
the same naming convention.
Okay, hopefully there wasn't any
issues there, the two steps, but
you never know what can happen.
So let's go ahead and do that right now.
Open up my terminal,
I'm gonna clear it out.
I'm gonna move into my SSH directory.
Look around,
I've already got some keys in there.
I actually already have a key called
full stack running when I was developing
this course.
So I'm gonna delete those,
one sec go ahead,
put a star on this just to make
sure they're all gone, cool.
And you know what's great about SSH?
I can show you all these files,
there's nothing secret about that,
they're just the name,
there's no information here.
Again SSH keys super powerful, versus I
couldn't have a file called passwords
cuz I couldn't ever show that to you.
There used to be the old way of how we
logged in the server this file called
password and you had mess password,
yeah those were the dark days of the web.
So I'm gonna use ssh-keygen.
And again, the default is id_rsa, you may
already have had one when you set up your
computer or you needed it for
some other reason.
So we're just gonna name
it something different.
I'm not putting in passphrase,
you generally should.
I'm not going to because I'm lazy,
and I'm not gonna use this much, but
you should have a password on it.
And there you go, it creates
a fingerprint of the hash using SHA256.
And you're saying,
what's the randomart for?
It doesn't actually have a purpose,
it's just so
you can quickly visually tell
different keys from each other.
And it doesn't seem like you can, but
see, let's make another one, temp.
See, they are slightly different and
you can quickly identify
your keys using this way.
Not many people do, it's more of,
it's cool to have randomart, but
yeah, I'm just gonna delete.
File because, there we go.
All right, so now I have a key
called full stack front end.
So I can cat My publicly key,
not my private key.
Not that it matters,
you're not gonna break into my server, but
you might if you have my private key.
But the public key, we see that's
what the public key looks like.
Now if you run cat against your private
key, the full stack front end key,
not pub,
you'll see it substantially longer.
That's because the private key is a very
expensive encryption [INAUDIBLE],
it's called a symmetric or
asymmetric cryptography,
which means you can only do it one way,
you can't do it the other way.
That's why not all communication is
encrypted in SHA256 because it's actually
a very expensive hash.
Again, these are just mathematical
functions we're running every single time.
But think about doing that millions of
times a second, it'd burn up all your CPU.
So there's times we use asymmetric
cryptography, there's times we
use symmetric cryptography, and
it depends on the use case here, yes?
>> Why should we have a passphrase?
>> Just in case someone breaks into
your computer and steals your keys.
That is the challenge of SSH keys is
they're as secure as the location
they're secured on.
Unlike biometric encryption, which you
can argue is not a security there,
cuz someone can just kidnap you and
use your thumbprint.
So there's no such thing
as perfect security.
But you generally have a passphrase just
in case someone gets into your computer,
it's one extra step.
However, I would say if someone made
it that far, made it to your computer,
you've got bigger problems at that point
than someone stealing your SSH key.
But it's just a good habit to have,
good question though.
All right, hopefully we're all there, we
have some SSH key, they're all different.
And then we talked about this, we have
the public key and your private key.
I just ran the ls command through grep,
which is just general regular expression.
That's what I use to find files usually,
I'll show you.
I don't like to just tell,
I like to show you.
So we can say, ls, and
I'm looking for my key.
So I've got a bunch of keys here,
that's annoying, let's clean that up.
We'll run grep and
then it'll show you the files that match.
And we'll talk about grep
a little bit later, and
how we can use it to find things really
quickly out of a lot of streaming data.
Okay, so now what's left is we need to
copy our public key into Digital Ocean.
To say, hey, Digital Ocean,
every time I wanna connect to my server,
use my public key to do
all that connection,
and I can decrypt that
connection using my private key.
So let's jump back to the browser.
And we'll choose SSH key as
our authentication method,
remember not password.
And we'll say, New SSH Key,
and I'm gonna copy.
So I'm just gonna cat .pub, and
I'm just gonna copy this.
There's an application called pbcopy,
which will do this for you.
But I'm trying to use minimal
software here, if possible,
I don't have pbcopies built in.
So just use your mouse and copy.
And then you paste that in,
give it a name, front end, 3.
And let's add this SSH key,
and there we go.
Next you can give it a hostname.
I don't know, I'm so bad at names,
it takes me so long.
I'll just leave it at the default, but
you can give your computer
its own personalized name.
Names do matter.
In this case, it doesn't really as much,
but let's say you had 300 servers running.
How do you know what that server is doing?
Is it a node server?
Is it a database server?
Is it a load balancer?
Names are really important, and
once you name a server it's very
very difficult to change it.
So there's an about naming things.
Maybe I'll post in the chat later,
but just give it a name, for
now the default is fine,
you can call whatever you want.
And let's create the droplet.
Sf01 is unavailable, awesome.
Thank you Digital Ocean,
you're really providing good value here.
But let's just create a new
droplet in a different region,
that's gonna happen from time to time.
So I'll just choose SFO2, and
Ubuntu we want the LTS, great.
Basic, regular, cheapest one, and
we have to recreate SSH key cuz
it's already saved on Digital Ocean,
there we go.
Select front end and
let's give this a shot again.
Okay, it's coming online.
I'm gonna delete this old one
cuz I will get confused later.
In the meantime, let's go ahead and
queue up these commands that
we're gonna need to log in.
So once our server comes online,
we're gonna be assigned an IP address.
The user is always root, in the beginning.
We will eventually create a new
user in the coming steps.
We never wanna be root,
but we'll talk about that.
And all we're gonna do is
ssh into your computer.
You have to specify the identity file,
ssh by default uses the id_rsa.
So if that's the key file you used,
you're okay.
If not, we have to specify with the flag
-i, and link it to our private key.
So let's check if my server is online yet.
Yes, and there's the IP address.
So I'm gonna copy it,
just helpfully provided here.
Clear, and I'm going to say, ssh -i, and
we're already in directory but
I'm gonna do things a long way,
full stack front end,
my private key, say, roots@ip.
Everybody there so far, okay?
And the authenticity with no connect to
the server it's gonna say, yes or no,
are you sure you wanna do this?
We're just gonna say, yes.
And if you do everything right,
you're now logged in.
Yeah, pat yourself on the back,
you've just created a server,
your SSH key it is secure
this is the default.
If whenever you're making anything, this
seems like a lot of work in the beginning.
You do it enough times it's very simple,
just becomes rote.
And we'll talk about how to make this
even faster a little bit later too.
All right, you're in your own server, it's
running Ubuntu, we're running on roots,
that doesn't seem right.
Should we be running on root?
What is root?
Let's talk about that in a second.